Functionality:
 * Reorder DML in relational engine (2,0) (1)

     SQL Generation must be made to obey event ordering constraints.
     Optionally optimize with dotted arrow constraints for MDSQL
     events.

     Status: Functional, currently solid arrows are set up where
             dotted arrows should be set up since the SQL generation
             isn't smart enough to obey the arrow constraints. This
             simply means that instance loops may not be flushable,
             but this isn't a blocking issue right now since instance
             loops were previously guaranteed to cause constraint
             violations.

 * Observers (3,2) (2)

     Infinite loop prevention. Reentrance.
     Plan: beforeActive --> afterActivate, make top level flush be the
     only flush to write to event processors, track events produced by
     DataObservers in wrapper layer and don't send them back to their
     own observer.

     Status: Some infrastructure work completed, but we are still
             struggling with the problem of matching old observer
             semantics to the new event stream listeners.

 * Link attributes (2,2) (0)

     Desugar into object model that uses compound keys + containment
     by multiple objects.

     Status: Not started. (Not blocking anything so far.)

 * Compound keys (1,0) (1)

     Mostly done in checkout. Difficult to confirm due to lack of
     significant test coverage.

     Status: Done

 * sub query filtering (1,0) (0.5)

     Simple addition to anonymous mapper in QGen.java, may require
     some fanciness for legacy bind variable support.

     Status: Done

 * Disconnected data (1,0.5) (0.5)

     On disconnect store HashMap of object data in wrapper layer. Also
     requires some simple state management to make sure writing is not
     allowed and to throw out objects from rolled back txns. We should
     be able to dig most of that code out of perforce.

     Status: API implemented with incorrect semantics. No longer
             blocking.

 * Data Operations (2,1.5) (0.5)

     Must be loaded into metadata structures.
     Requires API for creating an operation, setting any required
     parameters and accessing the results. May require expanding the
     session/engine interface or adding a new kind of event.
     Alternatively we could do a temporary solution by exposing methods
     on RDBMSEngine and doing the implementation in the wrapper layer.

     Status: Basic functionality in place. Not all exotic forms may be
             supported, but this is not currently blocking.

 * GenericDataQuery (1,1) (0)

     Requires exposing methods on RDBMSEngine and writing some wrapper
     code.

     Status: Not started, nonblocking.

 * immediate properties/specialize (1, 0) (0.5)

     Plan A: New PDL keyword. Error checking for queries that don't
     fetch immediate properties. Adapter must be modified to use
     object type column to determine the correct type when it exists.

     Plan B: Somehow support specialize by removing any direct storage
     of the object type in new persistence and always delegate to the
     object. Then store specific object type in wrapper layer and do
     specialization via the wrapper layer.

     Status: Plan B implemented, Plan A deferred.

 * order with null (1,1) (0)

     Passthrough code + some minor API additions to Query and friends.

     Status: Not started, nonblocking.

 * Session.getConnection() (1,1) (0)

     Passthrough code.

     Status: Not started, nonblocking.

 * DataQuery.setRange (1,0) (0.5)

     API addtions + minor implementation.

     Status: Done

 * DataQuery.set/getParameter (1,0) (1)

     Passthrough code ???

     Status: Done

 * Better connection source (1,1) (0)

     Look at old connection handling code, copy/reimplement.

     Status: Not started, nonblocking.

 * Size (1,1) (0)

     API additions + minor implementation. API additions can be done
     cheesily for now, but at some point we need a consistent story
     W.R.T. aggregation, functions, etc.

     Status: Not started, nonblocking.

 * Query caching (1,1) (0)

     Cache data structures, cache invalidation.

     Status: Not started, nonblocking.

 * Weak refs (0.5,0.5) (0)

     Do it.

     Status: Not started, nonblocking.

 * Oracle (1,1) (0)

     Oracle implementation of SQLWriter.

     Status: Not started.

 * LOBs (1,1) (0)

     Dig up Oracle specific code from perforce. Figure out how to call
     it without hack up RDBMSEngine to be oracle specific.

     Status: Not started.

Error Checking/Handling:
 * type checks for PropertyEvent (0.5,0) (0)

     Status: Done

 * null/"" handling (0.5,0.5) (0.5)

     Plan A: DOI.set converts ""-> null. Session disallows "". Deal
             with filtering.

 * throwing appropriate exceptions save() (1,0) (1)

     Plan A: Be fundamental. Adjust fundament as appropriate.

     Status: Done

 * GDflush() (0.5,0) (0.5)

     Status: Done

 * Auto-detect two wayness and warn (1,1) (0)

     Status: Not started, nonblocking.

Cleanup:
 * Eliminate old metadata & PDL parser
 * Move DDL generator
 * Adapters
 * Rename everything

Review:
 * Review everything
 * Error recovery audit

Documentation:
 * javadoc
 * Design documents
 * release notes
   - "super" ignored

Disable all cascading deletes.
